An introduction to the book of Esther.
Esther is the second of two Bible books
bearing a woman’s name.
The Jewish woman Esther
is featured prominently in the account,
which was most likely written by Mordecai,
Esther’s older cousin.
When Esther was orphaned,
Mordecai became her guardian.
Esther and Mordecai became part
of the court of King Ahasuerus.
The royal court was in Shushan.
The city of Shushan was located
in the heart of the Persian Empire,
which spanned from India to Ethiopia.
The book of Esther records events
that began in 493 B.C.E.
It was written about 475 B.C.E.
and completed before the books
of Ezra and Nehemiah were written.
In Esther’s day, a small remnant of Jews
had already returned
to rebuild the temple in Jerusalem,
but many others still lived
throughout the Persian Empire.
The book of Esther contains ten chapters.
Chapters 1 and 2
record the Persian king’s search
throughout the empire for a new queen.
Esther was finally chosen.
Chapters 3 to 7 disclose how Haman,
an enemy of God’s people,
rose to the position of prime minister
and hatched a plot to annihilate the Jews.
Haman used the king’s signet ring
to seal a decree
ordering the death of all the Jews,
including Mordecai.
If successful, Haman’s plan
would have cut off the family line
leading to the Messiah.
Upon learning of the plot,
Esther decided to follow Mordecai’s advice
and approach King Ahasuerus.
Did you know?
Appearing before the king unsummoned
could have meant a death sentence.
Only if the king held out his golden scepter
could the offender be spared.
Esther courageously approached the king
and exposed the wicked plot.
Upon learning of it,
the king was so furious
that he had Haman executed.
Chapters 8 to 10 relate
how Mordecai is appointed prime minister
in place of Haman.
Esther and Mordecai
enacted a new legal decree,
sealed with the king’s own signet ring,
that authorized the Jews
to defend themselves when attacked.
The decree was sent throughout the empire.
Jehovah gave the Jews a great victory
and preserved the family line
leading to the Messiah.
As you read this book,
note how Mordecai and Esther
skillfully used the Persian legal system
to protect the Jews,
how Jehovah can deliver his people
out of any situation,
and how young Esther
courageously risked her life
to protect God’s people
and the family line leading to the Messiah.